How to Deploy Directus to AWS EC2 (#42)
directus-community/guest-authoring: directus-aws/index.md

To ensure that the EC2 instance can be accessed and operated from anywhere, head over to the security group in your EC2 instance and add the following inbound rules:

| Name  | Security group rule ID | IP version | Type | Protocol | Port Range | Source |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| -  | your default security group | IPv4 | SSH | TCP | 22 | 0.0.0.0/0 |
| -  | your default security group | IPv4 | HTTP | TCP | 80 | 0.0.0.0/0 |
| -  | your default security group | IPv4 | HTTPS | TCP | 443 | 0.0.0.0/0 |

![EC2 Network security settings inbound rules](inbound.png)

Also, create an outbound rule for connecting to the database:

| Name  | Security group rule ID | IP version | Type | Protocol | Port Range | Source |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| -  | your default security group | IPv4 | PostgreSQL | TCP | 5432 | 0.0.0.0/0 |

![EC2 Network security settings outbound rules](outbound.png)
Save these rules.

## Set up Directus on AWS EC2

On the EC2 instance page, click on the connect button to connect to your AWS EC2 instance using EC2 Instance Connect (you can also connect to EC2 via other methods such as a session manager or SSH client).

> ![EC2 instance connect page](ec2-connect.png)

Reviewer: remove, clear instruction above

Once connected, run the command to install Docker on your EC2 server:

```bash
sudo yum install -y docker
```

Next, install Docker-compose with the command:

```bash
sudo curl -L https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/latest/download/docker-compose-$(uname -s)-$(uname -m) -o /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
```

> Grant permission to run the `docker-compose` command without using the `sudo` command
> 
> ```bash
> sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
> ```
> 
> Start the docker service with the command:
> 
> ```bash
> sudo service docker start
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
Grant permission to run the `docker-compose` command without using the `sudo` command, and start the docker service:

```bash
sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
sudo service docker start
```
````

Create a new directory called `directus` and navigate into the directory with the command:

```bash
mkdir directus && cd directus
```

In the `directus` directory, create a `docker-compose.yml` file and update its content using `vim` with the command:

```bash

> touch docker-compose.yml && vim docker-compose.yml

Reviewer: Please replace with `nano` - no point trapping people in a text editor. Please make sure to do this throughout.

```

This will open the `docker-compose.yml` file in `vim`, to edit the file, press `i` and paste the following Directus configuration:

```yml
version: "3"
services:
  directus:
    image: directus/directus:10.8.3
    ports:
      - 80:80
    volumes:
      - ./uploads:/directus/uploads
      - ./extensions:/directus/extensions
    environment:
      PORT: 80
      KEY: "replace-with-random-value"
      SECRET: "replace-with-random-value"
      ADMIN_EMAIL: "admin@example.com"
      ADMIN_PASSWORD: "d1r3ctu5"
      DB_CLIENT: "pg"
      DB_HOST: "YOUR_RDS_DB_URL"
      DB_PORT: 5432
      DB_DATABASE: "postgres"
      DB_USER: "YOUR_DB_USER"

>       DB_PASSWORD: "YOUR_DB_PASSWORD"

Reviewer: You missed the part where you explain where these values can be found. And the DB_HOST

      DB_SSL__REJECT_UNAUTHORIZED: false
      WEBSOCKETS_ENABLED: true
```

> Press the `esc` key to exit the insert mode and press `:` followed along with `wq` to quite the `vim` editor

Reviewer: Obviously remove this once we move to using a sane text editor

To ensure that Directus can write and save data in the `extensions` and `uploads` directories, enter the following command to grant the current user ownership of the directory:

```bash
sudo chown $USER:$USER extensions uploads
```

Run the command `docker-compose up`, which should spin up a Directus instance on port `80` of your EC2 server.

Head to the EC2 dashboard and click on the instance ID; this will open the properties of your EC2 instance; here, you'll find the `Public IPv4 DNS.`

> ![An EC2 instance properties page](ec2-public.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![An EC2 instance properties page showing the location of the Public IPv4 DNS value](ec2-public.png)
```

Open this URL and you should find Directus running.

> ## Set up AWS s3 (optional)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set up AWS S3 (optional)
```

If you want to use AWS S3 for media storage, follow these additional steps:

Search for s3 on the console or navigate to the [s3 page](https://s3.console.aws.amazon.com/s3/home) to create a new storage bucket.

> ![An AWS s3 page with list of buckets and a button to create a new bucket](new-bucket.png)

Reviewer: Remove

> When creating a new bucket, ensure ACLs are disabled and public access is blocked for the bucket for privacy (you can update these settings to suit your needs).

Reviewer: Explain briefly what ACLs are

![An AWS s3 bucket creation page with options to configure the bucket](create-bucket.png)

Copy the name of the bucket and use it in your `docker-compose.yml` with the following configs:

```yml
  STORAGE_LOCATIONS: s3
  STORAGE_S3_DRIVER: s3
  STORAGE_S3_KEY: YOUR_AWS_KEY
  STORAGE_S3_SECRET: YOUR_AWS_SECRET_KEY
  STORAGE_S3_BUCKET: YOUR_STORAGE_NAME

>   STORAGE_S3_REGION: YOUR_PREFERRED_REGION

Reviewer: Again, help users know where the S3-specific values are

  STORAGE_S3_ENDPOINT: s3.amazonaws.com
```

Re-run the Directus server with `docker-compose up` to implement the new changes added to the `docker-compose.yml` file.

Alternatively, you can run the command `docker-compose up -d` to run the Directus application on the background

## Next Steps

Some steps you could consider moving forward towards improving your deployment include:

- Improved security permissions for connecting to the created resources

- Consider utilizing [AWS Secrets Manager](https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/secretsmanager/) for managing your `ENV` variables

> - Consider implementing a load balancer for scaling the incoming requests on your directus application.

Reviewer: And it might be worth noting the limitations here against Cloud in a reasonable way: no backups, rolling updates, restart logic if it crashes.

---
title: 'How to Deploy Directus to AWS EC2'
description: 'An how to guide on how to host a self hosted instance of Directus on AWS, use s3 for file storage and AWS '
author:
  name: 'Trust Jamin'
  avatar_file_name: 'jamin.png'
---

## Introduction

In this tutorial, you will learn how to deploy a self-hosted instance of Directus to Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, connect it to an AWS RDS PostgreSQL database and S3 storage bucket.

## Before You Start

You will need:

- An Amazon Web Service account ([AWS](https://aws.amazon.com)) with access to its `SecretKey` and `AccessKey`.
- A Directus project - using the [self-hosted guide](https://docs.directus.io/getting-started/quickstart.html).

## Set up an AWS RDS Database

Login to your AWS account and head to the [RDS page](https://eu-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/rds/home) or search for RDS on the search bar to create a new database.

In the Create new database page,  select a standard create for database creation method, and on the engine options, select `PostgreSQL` (Directus also supports other databases such as, `MySQL`, `OracleDB`, `And Microsoft SQL` on AWS RDS).

> ![An AWS RDS database creation page with options to configure the database](create-db.png)

Reviewer: Note to self: remove this and bold 'Standard create' in paragraph above.

> In the settings options, create a name for your database instance and a username and password credentials to log in to the database (You'll use these credentials to log in via Directus).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the settings options, create a name for your database instance and a username and password credentials to connect to the database (You'll use these credentials to connect via Directus).
```

> ![An AWS RDS database creation page with options to configure the settings and login method of the database](db-settings.png)

Reviewer: Note to self: also remove. Description is good above.

- On the connectivity options, choose __Don't connect to an EC2 compute resource__ (this is because you haven't created an EC2 instance yet), and choose the default virtual private cloud (VPC) for connecting to the database.

- Select the `No` option for public access to the database to ensure the database can only be connected via the VPC security firewall.

- For the VPC security group (firewall), choose the default security group and select password authentication for database authentication.

> ![An AWS RDS database creation page to set up the connectivity options to the database](db-connection.png)

Reviewer: Note to self: Once again, for no additional info and burden of updating screenshots, remove.
